🌱 NOTCHLING — a tiny pet that lives in your Mac's notch and answers your questions

INSTALL (pick one)

  Easiest: double-click "Install Notchling.command".
     If macOS says it can't verify the developer: open System Settings → Privacy & Security,
     scroll down, click "Open Anyway", then double-click it again.

  Or: drag Notchling onto the Applications folder, then open it from Applications.
     If macOS blocks it: System Settings → Privacy & Security → "Open Anyway" (only needed once).

  Terminal fans: after dragging to Applications, run
     xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine /Applications/Notchling.app

(This happens because Notchling is a free hobby app that isn't registered with Apple.)

FIRST LAUNCH (it's free!)
  1. Settings open automatically if your pet needs a "brain":
     - Mac on macOS 26 (Tahoe) with Apple Intelligence turned on? Nothing to do. It uses Apple's
       free on-device AI.
     - Otherwise get a FREE Google Gemini key: go to aistudio.google.com/apikey, sign in with any
       Google account, click "Create API key", and paste it into Settings. No credit card needed.
       (Don't add billing to it if you want it to stay free. The free tier has a daily limit.)
     Web searches use DuckDuckGo + Wikipedia, which are free too.
     Optional: you can switch to Claude with a paid Anthropic key for smarter searching.
  2. Look at the top-middle of your screen. Hover the notch to peek, click to open.
  3. Your egg hatches in under a minute (warming it helps!).

CARE
  🍙 Meal  🍪 Snack  🛁 Bath (also cleans up poop)  🤚 Pat (or stroke it with the cursor)
  🌙 Bedtime  💊 Medicine when it's sick. Click it to poke — three quick clicks makes it dizzy.
  It grows up over a week: Baby → Kid → Teen → Grown-up. Neglect it too long and it runs away!
  Time passes slower while your Mac is off, so a weekend away won't hurt it.

ASK
  Open the 💬 Ask tab and type any question — it searches the web for free when needed and shows sources.
  Drag a PDF, image (Gemini/Claude only) or text file onto the notch to feed it to your pet, then ask about it.

Needs macOS 14 (Sonoma) or newer. Works on Macs without a notch too (it sits at the top-middle).
Quit from the 🌿 leaf icon in the menu bar.
